pages/Minecraft Server From Scratch.md, before:

---
permalink: minecraft-server-from-scratch
title: Minecraft Server From Scratch
---

[[Home|I'm]] [[Code Editors|writing]] my [[Minecraft Server|Minecraft server]], [[Bowmap|Bowmap]], from scratch in [[Clojure|Clojure]].

## Why?

While the vanilla [[Minecraft Server|Minecraft server]], and forks like Spigot and Paper, may be a good fit for servers that are substantially like the vanilla game, for a totally custom server, like [[Bowmap|Bowmap]], they are not. Bowmap is not just Minecraft with some tweaks, it is a fundamentally different game.

Using a vanilla server means inheriting all of Minecraft's built-in features, even if you do not want them. Features designed for vanilla gameplay can be abused in unexpected ways. This is a **substantial** source of bugs, even for the largest Minecraft servers. You can _feel_ this when playing on any sufficiently unique Minecraft server.

Beyond the vanilla gameplay mechanics, there is the constraint of the vanilla server architecture, which was designed for small survival worlds, and is a terrible fit for an MMO. A considerable amount of time and effort is spent tweaking the the server to fit your exact needs. The vanilla server is very state-heavy and single-threaded, making concurrency and scaling of a server nearly impossible. Everything is run in a main game loop run on a fixed tick cycle, which is unnecessarily restrictive and slow. The vanilla server is heavily coupled to the client, requiring great consideration as to how every part of the server interacts with the client.

The vanilla server, and most custom server implementations, are written in Java. Java is a [[Programming Languages|language]] straight from hell and I will not use it. While it is possible to interface with these servers from [[Clojure|Clojure]], they are still incredibly complex and stateful. You can't use Clojure to its fullest with a Java base.

Commit message:

Update minecraft server from scratch

pages/Minecraft Server From Scratch.md, after:

---
permalink: minecraft-server-from-scratch
title: Minecraft Server From Scratch
---

[[Home|I'm]] [[Code Editors|writing]] my [[Minecraft Server|Minecraft server]], [[Bowmap|Bowmap]], from scratch in [[Clojure|Clojure]].

## Why?

Insanity.

That's why, that's it.

Even with software like Spigot or Paper, writing Minecraft servers drives me crazy, so I'm writing my own server implementation.

That being said, there is a lot of cool stuff you can do with a from-scratch Minecraft server.

Minecraft is a game, and you cannot hope to another game on top of it. You cannot take a game and add things to it and expect a new game to come out the other end.

Minecraft servers that build off the vanilla game are extremely constrained in what they can actually do. This might not have always been the case, but it absolutely is today.

Minecraft can function as a game engine, allowing you to build unique games inside of its limitations.

If you want to make something that is just Minecraft with some additions and tweaks, that is absolutely cool and awesome and you should do it, but that is not what I want to do.

No matter how much you customize the vanilla server, you are still inheriting all of its features, even when you do not want them. Be ready for bugs and unexpected behavior as vanilla mechanics get abused in unexpected ways. It isn't trivial to disable things you don't want, and you'll probably end up spending enough time removing things you don't want to justify starting from nothing and only adding the things you do want!

Beyond just the vanilla gameplay mechanics, there's the server architecture itself, which was designed for small survival worlds with just you and maybe some friends. Porting that to, say, an MMO would be a substantial amount of work.

The vanilla server is very stateful and single-threaded, making it very difficult to scale. Want to split processing across nodes? Well... Good luck with that!

The vanilla server is built around the concept of "worlds", which, again, makes a lot of sense for a survival world, and very little else.

And back on the topic of insanity, this stateful object-oriented programming model that seems to dominate Minecraft servers just drives me crazy.
