pages/Onyx Spec.md, before:

---
permalink: onyx-spec
redirect_from:
  - onyx/spec
  - onyx-spec-conflict-overrides
  - onyx-intro
  - onyx-spec-intro
  - onyx-layout
  - onyx-spec-layout
title: Onyx Spec
---

[[Onyx|Onyx]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|Theory]] Specification.

Disclaimer: This page, and the rest of the Onyx Spec, may be out of date and/or incomplete. See [[Onyx Spec Archive|this notice]].

Onyx is an abandoned [[Steno Glossary#Phonetic|phonetic]] [[Steno|steno]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theory]] built around purity, consistency, and shortness.

Disclaimer: Onyx is an old theory that [[Home|I]] no longer use, and no [[Steno Glossary#Dictionary|dictionary]] was ever made. I ended up moving to a fully orthographic theory, [[Pinchord|Pinchord]]. However, I think there are some cool ideas here if anyone is interested in them.

Bear with me as I try to document something I haven't used in months :D

## Outline

Onyx is a (hopefully) accent-independent minimal phonetic steno theory for the [[Steno Glossary#WSI Layout|WSI]]/[[Steno Glossary#Extended Stenotype Layout|Extended Stenotype]] [[Steno Glossary#Layout|layouts]].

- [[Onyx Syllabic Splitting|Syllabic Splitting]]
- [[Onyx Mandatories|Mandatories]]
- Conflict resolution via orthography, `*`, etc.

Commit message:

clean up onyx spec pages

pages/Onyx Spec.md, after:

---
permalink: onyx-spec
redirect_from:
  - onyx/spec
  - onyx-spec-conflict-overrides
  - onyx-intro
  - onyx-spec-intro
  - onyx-layout
  - onyx-spec-layout
title: Onyx Spec
---

[[Onyx|Onyx]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|Theory]] Specification.

Disclaimer: Onyx is an old theory that [[Home|I]] no longer use, and no [[Steno Glossary#Dictionary|dictionary]] was ever made. I ended up moving to a fully orthographic theory, [[Pinchord|Pinchord]]. However, I think there are some cool ideas here if anyone is interested in them.

Bear with me as I try to document something I haven't used in months :D

## Outline

Onyx is a (hopefully) accent-independent minimal phonetic steno theory for the [[Steno Glossary#WSI Layout|WSI]]/[[Steno Glossary#Extended Stenotype Layout|Extended Stenotype]] [[Steno Glossary#Layout|layouts]]. It is designed to be extremely consistent while still being short and open to briefing.

The big secret sauce of Onyx is its syllabic splitting, allowing it to be very short while being extremely consistent.

- [[Onyx Syllabic Splitting|Syllabic Splitting]]
- [[Onyx Mandatories|Mandatories]]
- Conflict resolution via orthography, `*`, etc.
