pages/Steno Glossary.md, before:

---
permalink: steno-glossary
redirect_from:
  - glossaries
title: Steno Glossary
---
[[Steno|Steno]] Glossary

The content on this page is dedicated to the public domain under [[CC0|CC0 1.0 Universal]]. Feel free to use it however you'd like :)

## Key
Noun

- An individual key on a [**steno layout**](#steno-layout) or [**steno machine**](#steno-machine).

**Notes**
- Some keys share the same name, such as `S-` the [**starter**](#starter) and `-S` the [**ender**](#ender). These are different keys in different [**banks**](#bank) that are represented by the same character (`S`). These keys can be differentiated by their [**raw steno**](#raw-steno) notation, like _`S-`_ and _`-S`_.

## Chord
Noun

- A set of [**keys**](#key) that typically represent part of a [**translation**](#translation), like a single letter or sound.

**Notes**
- An example chord might be `TPH-`, which consists of the keys `T-`, `P-`, and `H-`, and represents the starting /n/ sound on the [**WSI layout**](#wsi-layout).
- Chords are the smallest unit of meaning in steno.
- The difference between chords and [**strokes**](#stroke) can often be subtle. See [Chords vs. Strokes](https://grahp.dev/chords-vs-strokes).

Verb

- The act of simultaneously pressing down the set of [**keys**](#key) that constitute a chord on a [**steno machine**](#steno-machine).
- Often used interchangeably with the verb [**stroke**](#stroke).

## Stroke
Noun

- A set of [**keys**](#key) pressed together, typically formed out of [**chords**](#chord).

**Notes**
- The differences between a stroke and a [**chord**](#chord) is that [**chords**](#chord) typically represent simple [**translations**](#translation), such as a sound or orthographic sequence, while strokes are more complex, and exist mostly on their own. [**Chords**](#chord) are usually combined to form strokes. (Link to website page)
- Strokes can be composed together to form [**outlines**](#outline).
- The difference between chords and [**strokes**](#stroke) can often be subtle. See [Chords vs. Strokes](https://grahp.dev/chords-vs-strokes).

Verb

- The act of simultaneously pressing down the set of [**keys**](#key) that constitute a stroke on a [**steno machine**](#steno-machine).

## Outline
Noun

- A sequence of one or more [**strokes**](#stroke).

**Notes**
- Outlines are only sequences of [**strokes**](#stroke), not [**chords**](#chord) or [**keys**](#key). It may appear that a [**key**](#key) or [**chord**](#chord), such as `T-` or `-PBLG` are in an outline, but these are actually [**strokes**](#stroke) that contain 1 [**chord**](#chord) each.
- A [**stroke**](#stroke) may "belong" to multiple outlines. Outlines are not greedy.
- An example outline might be `KEUT/KAT`.

## Translation
Noun

- Text that may represent a word, phrase, a part of a word or phrase, sound, affix, **Plover command**, punctuation, or any other arbitrary output.

**Notes**
- Translations can be concatenated to form new translations.
- Translations are used in [**entries**](#entry) as their output.
- Some example translations include "cat", and "{^es}".

## Entry
Noun

- A mapping between an [**outline**](#outline) and a [**translation**](#translation).

**Notes**
- Entries are the building blocks of [**dictionaries**](#dictionary)
- These mappings are specified by [**theory rules**](#theory-rule).

## Dictionary
Noun

- A collection of [**entries**](#entry) with unique [**outlines**](#outline) which maps [**outlines**](#outline) to [**translations**](#translation).
- A set of [**outlines**](#outline) with mapped [**translations**](#translation).

**Notes**
- A dictionary provides a way to lookup an [**outline**](#outline) and provide the [**translation**](#translation) the [**outline**](#outline) maps to.
- Dictionaries may consist of enumerated [**entries**](#entry), and stored in file formats such as JSON or RTF, or [**entries**](#entry) generated on-the-fly by a [**programmatic dictionary**](#programmatic-dictionary).
<!-- - Because an [**entry**](#entry)'s job is to fulfill a [**theory rule**](#theory-rule), dictionaries can be thought of as the realization of a [**theory**](#theory). -->
- What [**entries**](#entry) a dictionary contains may adapt based on context, see **context aware** and [**modal**](#modal).

### Programmatic Dictionary
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- A [**dictionary**](#dictionary) whose [**entries**](#entry) are not pre-defined, but generated on-the-fly.

**Notes**
- [**Entries**](#entry) are not stored in a file, but given via a lookup function.

## Theory Rule
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- A rule defining how to map a given [**entry**](#entry) to a derived [**translation**](#translation).
  - A rule may do this based on phonetics, orthography, shape, or completely arbitrarily.
- A rule that defines all of or some part of how an outline maps to a translation.

**Notes**
- The constituents of a [**theory**](#theory).
- Theory rules vary in how many entries they cover.
  - Most theory rules don't apply to all entries, meaning they will do nothing a lot of the time.

## Theory
Noun

- The set of [**theory rules**](#theory-rule) that dictate how [**entries**](#entry) are formed.

**Notes**
- Usually has a name (probably bird related for some reason)
- May have learning resources, a wiki, a specification, etc.
- Theories may be designed to work well with other theories (such as a number theory, symbol theory, or movement theory), or to exist independently, like a **full english theory**

## Conflict
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

<!-- Maybe specify that it's contained in existing entries? -->

Adj.

- An [**outline**](#outline) that is a conflict.

Noun

- An [**outline**](#outline) contained in multiple [**entries**](#entry).
<!-- Multiple existing entries? -->
<!-- Multiple real entries? -->

**Notes**
- This means the translation you might get from an looking up an outline could be wrong?
  - Or can't be known maybe.
- This comes from [**theory rules**](#theory-rule) overlapping.
- A [**dictionary**](#dictionary) may override an [**entry**](#entry) from another [**dictionary**](#dictionary), which would cause the [**entry**](#entry) in the [**dictionary**](#dictionary) with higher priority to "shadow" the other [**entry**](#entry).

## Word Boundary Conflict
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun
- An [**outline**](#outline) that can be split into multiple [**outlines**](#outline) contained in existing [**entries**](#entry).

**Notes**
- Your steno engine must pick one outline?
- There are priorities for how these are avoided

## Bank
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- A group of [**keys**](#key) that are positioned in a specific area on a [**steno layout**](#steno-layout).
  - The banks on the **WSI layout** are [**Starters**](#starter), [**Vowels**](#vowel), and [**Enders**](#ender).

### Starter
Noun

- A [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) in the starter [**bank**](#bank).

Adj.

- Referring to a [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) being in the starter [**bank**](#bank).

### Ender
Noun

- A [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) in the ender [**bank**](#bank).

Adj.

- Referring to a [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) being in the ender [**bank**](#bank).

### Vowel
Noun

- A [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) in the vowel [**bank**](#bank).

Adj.

- Referring to a [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) being in the vowel [**bank**](#bank).

## Write-out
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- This should talk about how much outlines follow theory rules or like how weird they are.
  - Maybe unify theory rule coverage with this idea?
- TODO an entry that uses rules only?
  - If I split rules and templates, then this is fine I guess?

## Brief
Noun

TODO maybe move to conflict and use in theory rule definition?

- Short for abbreviated or abbreviation, An "abbreviated" [**outline**](#outline), used to reduce the number of [**strokes**](#strokes) required to output a [**translation**](#translation).

**Notes**
- Defined by [**theory rules**](#theory-rule).
- Tends to deviate from most [**theory rules**](#theory-rule).

## Template
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- A [**brief**](#brief) that can be broken down into separately-defined rules that typically apply to multiple [**briefs**](#brief).
- A [**brief**](#brief) that is defined by [**theory rules**](#theory-rule), rather than chosen arbitrarily.

**Notes**
- The opposite of an [Arbitrary](#arbitrary) outline 

## Arbitrary
Noun

- An outline that is not defined by [**theory rules**](#theory-rule), but chosen arbitrarily.

## Mandatory
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Adj.

- ...

Noun
- A mandatory outline, translation, or entry.

- The only way to output a translation is with an arb.
- A translation with only an arbitrary briefs to output it.

## Skeleton
Noun

- A [**stroke**](#stroke) with [**keys**](#key) in the [**starter**](#starter) and [**ender**](#ender) [**banks**](#bank), but no keys in the [**vowel bank**](#vowel).

**Notes**
- Skeleton strokes are often used for [**briefs**](#brief), as all real words contain vowel sounds, and thus will never collide with skeletons.

## Fingerspelling
Verb

- The use of a fingerspelling [**theory**](#theory) or [**dictionary**](#dictionary).

Adj.

- A [**theory**](#theory) or [**dictionary**](#dictionary) that mostly outputs singular characters, used to spell words one letter at a time.

**Notes**
- Different from [**orthospelling**](#orthospelling), which outputs multiple characters at a time as full orthographic sequences.

## Orthospelling
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Verb

- The use of an orthospelling [**theory**](#theory).

Noun
- An orthospelling [**theory**](#theory).
  - Or dict?

Adj.
- Describing a [**theory rule**](#theory-rule) that is orthographic.
- Describing a [**theory**](#theory) that is composed of orthographic [**theory rules**](#theory-rule).
- Orthospelling theories are about composing orthographic sequences as opposed to letters.

## Modal
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Adj.

- A characteristic of a [**theory**](#theory) where [**theory rules**](#theory-rule) can change depending on the current active mode?
- A characteristic of a [**dictionary**](#dictionary) where [**outlines**](#outlines) can refer to different [**translations**](#translation) depending on the current active mode.

**Notes**
- TODO There is typically a [**stroke**](#stroke) or dedicated [**key**](#key) used to switch between modes.
- A dedicated key might also denote that just this stroke is in a different mode.

### Mode Enter Outline
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- The outline used to enter a [**mode**](#modal)

### Mode Exit Outline
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- The outline used to exit a [**mode**](#modal)

## Raw Steno
Adj.

- Describing a [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) represented in raw steno form.

Noun

- The format for representing [**keys**](#key), [**chords**](#chord), [**strokes**](#stroke), and [**outlines**](#outline) in textual form.

**Notes**
- Includes non-[**keys**](#key) such as `-` to denote the lack of [**keys**](#key) in the [**vowel bank**](#vowel), and `/` to denote the start of a new [**stroke**](#stroke).
- Raw steno is ambiguous. `T-` could refer to the [**starter**](#starter) `T-`, the [**chord**](#chord) containing only the [**starter**](#starter) `T-`, the [**stroke**](#stroke) constructed of only the [**chord**](#chord) containing only the [**starter**](#starter) `T-`, or the [**outline**](#outline) consisting of only the [**stroke**](#stroke) constructed of only the [**chord**](#chord) containing only the [**starter**](#starter) `T-`.
- [**Keys**](#key) in [**strokes**](#stroke) appear in [**steno order**](#steno-order).

## Untranslate

Also Known As: Untran

Adj.

- Describing an [**outline**](#outline) that is not found in any [**dictionaries**](#dictionary), and appears in [**raw steno form**](#raw-steno).

Noun

- An [**outline**](#outline) that is not found in any [**dictionaries**](#dictionary), and appears in [**raw steno form**](#raw-steno).

## Steno Layout
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- Keys, banks, steno order. Defined in a theory?

## Steno Order
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- The order in which keys are?
- The order in which keys are displayed?
- It's not just about human consumption, it's also about chords and how chords can compose with each other except for when it's not...
- As defined by steno layout

**Notes**
- Raw steno displays keys in strokes and outlines in this order.
  - Steno order is often display like this, such as `#STKPWHRAO*EUFRPBLGTSDZ`

## WSI Layout
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

a steno layout

## Extended Stenotype Layout
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

another steno layout, but this one has 2 more keys :)

## Steno Machine
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- A chorded stenographic input device.

**Notes**
- Refers to both professional and hobbyist keyboards.

## Steno Writer
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- A professional steno machine.
(the machine isn't professional the user is ._.)

## Steno Keyboard / Hobbyist machine
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- A steno machine made for hobbyists.
- Not a dedicated machine, just a keyboard.
<!-- - A steno machine made for hobbyist. Typically not a dedicated machine, just a keyboard-->

## Steno Engine
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Allows dictionaries to work?
Provides many other facilities around steno?

## Plover
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Free and Open Source [**steno engine**](#steno-engine)

**Notes**
- Download Plover - [https://github.com/openstenoproject/plover/releases/latest](https://github.com/openstenoproject/plover/releases/latest).
- Plover Wiki Beginner's Guide - [https://plover.wiki/index.php/Beginner%27s_Guide](https://plover.wiki/index.php/Beginner%27s_Guide).

# Other Sources

- Plover Wiki Glossary - [https://plover.wiki/index.php/Glossary](https://plover.wiki/index.php/Glossary)
- Steno Explainers - [https://sammdot.ca/steno/explainers](https://sammdot.ca/steno/explainers)
- Lapwing Glossary - [https://lapwing.aerick.ca/Glossary.html#steno-theory](https://lapwing.aerick.ca/Glossary.html#steno-theory)
- Learn Plover! Glossary - [https://www.openstenoproject.org/learn-plover/glossary.html](https://www.openstenoproject.org/learn-plover/glossary.html)
- StudySteno Glossary - [https://studysteno.com/moo/mod/glossary/view.php?id=22](https://studysteno.com/moo/mod/glossary/view.php?id=22)
- Plover Wiki Steno Hardware Terminology - [https://plover.wiki/index.php/Steno_hardware_terminology](https://plover.wiki/index.php/Steno_hardware_terminology)

Terms not covered here:

- Vernon Court Reporters Transcription & Court Reporting Glossary - [https://academy.vernoncourtreporters.com/](https://academy.vernoncourtreporters.com/)

# TODO

- Folding
- Dropping
- Clip-on
- Phrasing
- Plover Command
- Syllabic Splitting
- Paper tape
- Pseudosteno
- Stenonym
- Modal entry and exit outlines?
- Better descriptions.
- Replace all the disambiguation of keys, chords, and strokes with a steno notation page.

Commit message:

Add dropping to steno glossaty

pages/Steno Glossary.md, after:

---
permalink: steno-glossary
redirect_from:
  - glossaries
title: Steno Glossary
---
[[Steno|Steno]] Glossary

The content on this page is dedicated to the public domain under [[CC0|CC0 1.0 Universal]]. Feel free to use it however you'd like :)

## Key
Noun

- An individual key on a [**steno layout**](#steno-layout) or [**steno machine**](#steno-machine).

**Notes**
- Some keys share the same name, such as `S-` the [**starter**](#starter) and `-S` the [**ender**](#ender). These are different keys in different [**banks**](#bank) that are represented by the same character (`S`). These keys can be differentiated by their [**raw steno**](#raw-steno) notation, like _`S-`_ and _`-S`_.

## Chord
Noun

- A set of [**keys**](#key) that typically represent part of a [**translation**](#translation), like a single letter or sound.

**Notes**
- An example chord might be `TPH-`, which consists of the keys `T-`, `P-`, and `H-`, and represents the starting /n/ sound on the [**WSI layout**](#wsi-layout).
- Chords are the smallest unit of meaning in steno.
- The difference between chords and [**strokes**](#stroke) can often be subtle. See [Chords vs. Strokes](https://grahp.dev/chords-vs-strokes).

Verb

- The act of simultaneously pressing down the set of [**keys**](#key) that constitute a chord on a [**steno machine**](#steno-machine).
- Often used interchangeably with the verb [**stroke**](#stroke).

## Stroke
Noun

- A set of [**keys**](#key) pressed together, typically formed out of [**chords**](#chord).

**Notes**
- The differences between a stroke and a [**chord**](#chord) is that [**chords**](#chord) typically represent simple [**translations**](#translation), such as a sound or orthographic sequence, while strokes are more complex, and exist mostly on their own. [**Chords**](#chord) are usually combined to form strokes. (Link to website page)
- Strokes can be composed together to form [**outlines**](#outline).
- The difference between chords and [**strokes**](#stroke) can often be subtle. See [Chords vs. Strokes](https://grahp.dev/chords-vs-strokes).

Verb

- The act of simultaneously pressing down the set of [**keys**](#key) that constitute a stroke on a [**steno machine**](#steno-machine).

## Outline
Noun

- A sequence of one or more [**strokes**](#stroke).

**Notes**
- Outlines are only sequences of [**strokes**](#stroke), not [**chords**](#chord) or [**keys**](#key). It may appear that a [**key**](#key) or [**chord**](#chord), such as `T-` or `-PBLG` are in an outline, but these are actually [**strokes**](#stroke) that contain 1 [**chord**](#chord) each.
- A [**stroke**](#stroke) may "belong" to multiple outlines. Outlines are not greedy.
- An example outline might be `KEUT/KAT`.

## Translation
Noun

- Text that may represent a word, phrase, a part of a word or phrase, sound, affix, **Plover command**, punctuation, or any other arbitrary output.

**Notes**
- Translations can be concatenated to form new translations.
- Translations are used in [**entries**](#entry) as their output.
- Some example translations include "cat", and "{^es}".

## Entry
Noun

- A mapping between an [**outline**](#outline) and a [**translation**](#translation).

**Notes**
- Entries are the building blocks of [**dictionaries**](#dictionary)
- These mappings are specified by [**theory rules**](#theory-rule).

## Dictionary
Noun

- A collection of [**entries**](#entry) with unique [**outlines**](#outline) which maps [**outlines**](#outline) to [**translations**](#translation).
- A set of [**outlines**](#outline) with mapped [**translations**](#translation).

**Notes**
- A dictionary provides a way to lookup an [**outline**](#outline) and provide the [**translation**](#translation) the [**outline**](#outline) maps to.
- Dictionaries may consist of enumerated [**entries**](#entry), and stored in file formats such as JSON or RTF, or [**entries**](#entry) generated on-the-fly by a [**programmatic dictionary**](#programmatic-dictionary).
<!-- - Because an [**entry**](#entry)'s job is to fulfill a [**theory rule**](#theory-rule), dictionaries can be thought of as the realization of a [**theory**](#theory). -->
- What [**entries**](#entry) a dictionary contains may adapt based on context, see **context aware** and [**modal**](#modal).

### Programmatic Dictionary
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- A [**dictionary**](#dictionary) whose [**entries**](#entry) are not pre-defined, but generated on-the-fly.

**Notes**
- [**Entries**](#entry) are not stored in a file, but given via a lookup function.

## Theory Rule
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- A rule defining how to map a given [**entry**](#entry) to a derived [**translation**](#translation).
  - A rule may do this based on phonetics, orthography, shape, or completely arbitrarily.
- A rule that defines all of or some part of how an outline maps to a translation.

**Notes**
- The constituents of a [**theory**](#theory).
- Theory rules vary in how many entries they cover.
  - Most theory rules don't apply to all entries, meaning they will do nothing a lot of the time.

## Theory
Noun

- The set of [**theory rules**](#theory-rule) that dictate how [**entries**](#entry) are formed.

**Notes**
- Usually has a name (probably bird related for some reason)
- May have learning resources, a wiki, a specification, etc.
- Theories may be designed to work well with other theories (such as a number theory, symbol theory, or movement theory), or to exist independently, like a **full english theory**

## Conflict
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

<!-- Maybe specify that it's contained in existing entries? -->

Adj.

- An [**outline**](#outline) that is a conflict.

Noun

- An [**outline**](#outline) contained in multiple [**entries**](#entry).
<!-- Multiple existing entries? -->
<!-- Multiple real entries? -->

**Notes**
- This means the translation you might get from an looking up an outline could be wrong?
  - Or can't be known maybe.
- This comes from [**theory rules**](#theory-rule) overlapping.
- A [**dictionary**](#dictionary) may override an [**entry**](#entry) from another [**dictionary**](#dictionary), which would cause the [**entry**](#entry) in the [**dictionary**](#dictionary) with higher priority to "shadow" the other [**entry**](#entry).

## Word Boundary Conflict
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun
- An [**outline**](#outline) that can be split into multiple [**outlines**](#outline) contained in existing [**entries**](#entry).

**Notes**
- Your steno engine must pick one outline?
- There are priorities for how these are avoided

## Bank
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- A group of [**keys**](#key) that are positioned in a specific area on a [**steno layout**](#steno-layout).
  - The banks on the **WSI layout** are [**Starters**](#starter), [**Vowels**](#vowel), and [**Enders**](#ender).

### Starter
Noun

- A [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) in the starter [**bank**](#bank).

Adj.

- Referring to a [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) being in the starter [**bank**](#bank).

### Ender
Noun

- A [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) in the ender [**bank**](#bank).

Adj.

- Referring to a [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) being in the ender [**bank**](#bank).

### Vowel
Noun

- A [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) in the vowel [**bank**](#bank).

Adj.

- Referring to a [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) being in the vowel [**bank**](#bank).

## Write-out
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- This should talk about how much outlines follow theory rules or like how weird they are.
  - Maybe unify theory rule coverage with this idea?
- TODO an entry that uses rules only?
  - If I split rules and templates, then this is fine I guess?

## Brief
Noun

TODO maybe move to conflict and use in theory rule definition?

- Short for abbreviated or abbreviation, An "abbreviated" [**outline**](#outline), used to reduce the number of [**strokes**](#strokes) required to output a [**translation**](#translation).

**Notes**
- Defined by [**theory rules**](#theory-rule).
- Tends to deviate from most [**theory rules**](#theory-rule).

## Template
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- A [**brief**](#brief) that can be broken down into separately-defined rules that typically apply to multiple [**briefs**](#brief).
- A [**brief**](#brief) that is defined by [**theory rules**](#theory-rule), rather than chosen arbitrarily.

**Notes**
- The opposite of an [Arbitrary](#arbitrary) outline 

## Arbitrary
Noun

- An outline that is not defined by [**theory rules**](#theory-rule), but chosen arbitrarily.

## Mandatory
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Adj.

- ...

Noun
- A mandatory outline, translation, or entry.

- The only way to output a translation is with an arb.
- A translation with only an arbitrary briefs to output it.

## Skeleton
Noun

- A [**stroke**](#stroke) with [**keys**](#key) in the [**starter**](#starter) and [**ender**](#ender) [**banks**](#bank), but no keys in the [**vowel bank**](#vowel).

**Notes**
- Skeleton strokes are often used for [**briefs**](#brief), as all real words contain vowel sounds, and thus will never collide with skeletons.

## Fingerspelling
Verb

- The use of a fingerspelling [**theory**](#theory) or [**dictionary**](#dictionary).

Adj.

- A [**theory**](#theory) or [**dictionary**](#dictionary) that mostly outputs singular characters, used to spell words one letter at a time.

**Notes**
- Different from [**orthospelling**](#orthospelling), which outputs multiple characters at a time as full orthographic sequences.

## Orthospelling
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Verb

- The use of an orthospelling [**theory**](#theory).

Noun
- An orthospelling [**theory**](#theory).
  - Or dict?

Adj.
- Describing a [**theory rule**](#theory-rule) that is orthographic.
- Describing a [**theory**](#theory) that is composed of orthographic [**theory rules**](#theory-rule).
- Orthospelling theories are about composing orthographic sequences as opposed to letters.

## Modal
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Adj.

- A characteristic of a [**theory**](#theory) where [**theory rules**](#theory-rule) can change depending on the current active mode?
- A characteristic of a [**dictionary**](#dictionary) where [**outlines**](#outlines) can refer to different [**translations**](#translation) depending on the current active mode.

**Notes**
- TODO There is typically a [**stroke**](#stroke) or dedicated [**key**](#key) used to switch between modes.
- A dedicated key might also denote that just this stroke is in a different mode.

### Mode Enter Outline
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- The outline used to enter a [**mode**](#modal)

### Mode Exit Outline
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- The outline used to exit a [**mode**](#modal)

## Raw Steno
Adj.

- Describing a [**key**](#key), [**chord**](#chord), [**stroke**](#stroke), or [**outline**](#outline) represented in raw steno form.

Noun

- The format for representing [**keys**](#key), [**chords**](#chord), [**strokes**](#stroke), and [**outlines**](#outline) in textual form.

**Notes**
- Includes non-[**keys**](#key) such as `-` to denote the lack of [**keys**](#key) in the [**vowel bank**](#vowel), and `/` to denote the start of a new [**stroke**](#stroke).
- Raw steno is ambiguous. `T-` could refer to the [**starter**](#starter) `T-`, the [**chord**](#chord) containing only the [**starter**](#starter) `T-`, the [**stroke**](#stroke) constructed of only the [**chord**](#chord) containing only the [**starter**](#starter) `T-`, or the [**outline**](#outline) consisting of only the [**stroke**](#stroke) constructed of only the [**chord**](#chord) containing only the [**starter**](#starter) `T-`.
- [**Keys**](#key) in [**strokes**](#stroke) appear in [**steno order**](#steno-order).

## Untranslate

Also Known As: Untran

Adj.

- Describing an [**outline**](#outline) that is not found in any [**dictionaries**](#dictionary), and appears in [**raw steno form**](#raw-steno).

Noun

- An [**outline**](#outline) that is not found in any [**dictionaries**](#dictionary), and appears in [**raw steno form**](#raw-steno).

## Steno Layout
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- Keys, banks, steno order. Defined in a theory?

## Steno Order
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Noun

- The order in which keys are?
- The order in which keys are displayed?
- It's not just about human consumption, it's also about chords and how chords can compose with each other except for when it's not...
- As defined by steno layout

**Notes**
- Raw steno displays keys in strokes and outlines in this order.
  - Steno order is often display like this, such as `#STKPWHRAO*EUFRPBLGTSDZ`

## WSI Layout
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

a steno layout

## Extended Stenotype Layout
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

another steno layout, but this one has 2 more keys :)

## Steno Machine
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- A chorded stenographic input device.

**Notes**
- Refers to both professional and hobbyist keyboards.

## Steno Writer
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- A professional steno machine.
(the machine isn't professional the user is ._.)

## Steno Keyboard / Hobbyist machine
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

- A steno machine made for hobbyists.
- Not a dedicated machine, just a keyboard.
<!-- - A steno machine made for hobbyist. Typically not a dedicated machine, just a keyboard-->

## Steno Engine
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Allows dictionaries to work?
Provides many other facilities around steno?

## Plover
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

Free and Open Source [**steno engine**](#steno-engine)

**Notes**
- Download Plover - [https://github.com/openstenoproject/plover/releases/latest](https://github.com/openstenoproject/plover/releases/latest).
- Plover Wiki Beginner's Guide - [https://plover.wiki/index.php/Beginner%27s_Guide](https://plover.wiki/index.php/Beginner%27s_Guide).

## Dropping
![TODO](https://img.shields.io/badge/TODO-orange?style=flat)

(Find the right place for this)

- The removing of keys from a stroke?

# Other Sources

- Plover Wiki Glossary - [https://plover.wiki/index.php/Glossary](https://plover.wiki/index.php/Glossary)
- Steno Explainers - [https://sammdot.ca/steno/explainers](https://sammdot.ca/steno/explainers)
- Lapwing Glossary - [https://lapwing.aerick.ca/Glossary.html#steno-theory](https://lapwing.aerick.ca/Glossary.html#steno-theory)
- Learn Plover! Glossary - [https://www.openstenoproject.org/learn-plover/glossary.html](https://www.openstenoproject.org/learn-plover/glossary.html)
- StudySteno Glossary - [https://studysteno.com/moo/mod/glossary/view.php?id=22](https://studysteno.com/moo/mod/glossary/view.php?id=22)
- Plover Wiki Steno Hardware Terminology - [https://plover.wiki/index.php/Steno_hardware_terminology](https://plover.wiki/index.php/Steno_hardware_terminology)

Terms not covered here:

- Vernon Court Reporters Transcription & Court Reporting Glossary - [https://academy.vernoncourtreporters.com/](https://academy.vernoncourtreporters.com/)

# TODO

- Folding
- Dropping
- Clip-on
- Phrasing
- Plover Command
- Syllabic Splitting
- Paper tape
- Pseudosteno
- Stenonym
- Modal entry and exit outlines?
- Better descriptions.
- Replace all the disambiguation of keys, chords, and strokes with a steno notation page.
