pages/Steno.md, before:

---
permalink: steno
title: Steno
redirect_from:
  - steno-context-aware-uses
  - stoin
---
Resources for machine stenography that [[Home|I've]] made over the past year or so.

- [[Pinchord|Pinchord]] - An [[Steno Glossary#Orthospelling|orthospelling]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theory]]
- [[Generated Programmatic Dictionaries|Generated Programmatic Dictionaries]] - Why the way we make dictionaries now might be flawed
- [[Regular Outline Grammars|Regular Outline Grammars]] - Why the way we do [[Steno Glossary#Outline|outline]] splitting now might be flawed :p

---

- [[Steno Glossary|Steno Glossary]] - Glossary of steno terms you might hear
- [[Raw Steno|Raw Steno]] - Common notation you might see for [[Steno Glossary#Raw Steno|raw steno]]
- [[Coding with Steno|Coding with Steno]] - [[Code Editors|Writing and editing]] [[Programming Languages|code]] with steno effectively
- [[Chords vs Strokes|Chords vs. Strokes]]
- [[Uberdictionary|Uberdictionary]] - How [[Generated Programmatic Dictionaries|generated]] [[Steno Glossary#Phonetic|phonetic]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theories]] could work
- [[Programmatic Dictionaries Rule|Programmatic Dictionaries Rule]]

---

Old Stuff:
- [[Quartz|Quartz]] - [[Generated Programmatic Dictionaries|Programmatic dictionary generator]]
- [[Onyx|Onyx]] and the [[Onyx Spec|Onyx Spec]] - Old [[Steno Glossary#Phonetic|phonetic]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theory]] of [[Home|mine]]
- [[Ametrine|Ametrine]] - Old [[Steno Glossary#Orthospelling|orthospelling]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theory]], [[Pinchord|Pinchord]] is better

Commit message:

Link to theory in practice from the steno page :p

pages/Steno.md, after:

---
permalink: steno
title: Steno
redirect_from:
  - steno-context-aware-uses
  - stoin
---
Resources for machine stenography that [[Home|I've]] made over the past year or so.

- [[Pinchord|Pinchord]] - An [[Steno Glossary#Orthospelling|orthospelling]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theory]]
- [[Generated Programmatic Dictionaries|Generated Programmatic Dictionaries]] - Why the way we make dictionaries now might be flawed
- [[Regular Outline Grammars|Regular Outline Grammars]] - Why the way we do [[Steno Glossary#Outline|outline]] splitting now might be flawed :p

---

- [[Steno Glossary|Steno Glossary]] - Glossary of steno terms you might hear
- [[Raw Steno|Raw Steno]] - Common notation you might see for [[Steno Glossary#Raw Steno|raw steno]]
- [[Coding with Steno|Coding with Steno]] - [[Code Editors|Writing and editing]] [[Programming Languages|code]] with steno effectively
- [[Chords vs Strokes|Chords vs. Strokes]]
- [[Uberdictionary|Uberdictionary]] - How [[Generated Programmatic Dictionaries|generated]] [[Steno Glossary#Phonetic|phonetic]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theories]] could work
- [[Theory in Practice|Theory in Practice]] - A page about theory complexity that I have yet to written but put on here anyway :p
- [[Programmatic Dictionaries Rule|Programmatic Dictionaries Rule]]

---

Old Stuff:
- [[Quartz|Quartz]] - [[Generated Programmatic Dictionaries|Programmatic dictionary generator]]
- [[Onyx|Onyx]] and the [[Onyx Spec|Onyx Spec]] - Old [[Steno Glossary#Phonetic|phonetic]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theory]] of [[Home|mine]]
- [[Ametrine|Ametrine]] - Old [[Steno Glossary#Orthospelling|orthospelling]] [[Steno Glossary#Theory|theory]], [[Pinchord|Pinchord]] is better
