pages/Theory in Practice.md, before:

---
title: Theory in Practice
permalink: theory-in-practice
---

Very in-progress, but [[Home|I'm]] tired of leaving this uncommitted.

## Outline

A rough idea of what I'd like to talk about

- What is steno
- (Somewhere) What translations are, and what steno is actually for (translations are effects?)
- A brief history of shorthand and steno
- What is a dictionary (and entries, and mathematical functions)
- (Somewhere) How steno works, what is a steno engine (stateful transducers)
- What is a layout
- What is a theory, and how do they relate to dictionaries
- What are theory rules, and how do they relate to entries
- Briefs, fake words, shape based outlines, etc.
  - Brief families, rule-based briefs vs. arbitrary briefs, shape-based
  - How briefs relate (families and beyond)
- Conflicts in realtime theories and the types of conflicts in realtime theories. Begin to talk about theory complexity in general
- Outline splitting, and how it relates to word boundary conflicts
- Stroke splitting, how it really works, what's wrong with it, and how it could work
- Orthography, and that whole spectrum

Some theory ideas near and dear to my heart:
- Regular outlines grammars
- Orthospelling
- Programmatic dictionaries

Theory development:
- The process of theory development
- Rules
- Specifications
- Understanding of your own theory
- Dictionary building
- Layout development!

Some other ideas:
- Alternative theories
- split "tall" keys
- Key positions


[[Home|I've]] designed a few theories over the past year or so, and I'd like to share what I've learned over all that time.

These are just some potentially organized ramblings.


For now, see:
- [[Generated Programmatic Dictionaries|Generated Programmatic Dictionaries]]
- [[Regular Outline Grammars|Regular Outline Grammars]]
- [[Pinchord|Pinchord]]

Commit message:

Add Theory in Practice outline

pages/Theory in Practice.md, after:

---
title: Theory in Practice
permalink: theory-in-practice
---

Very in-progress, but [[Home|I'm]] tired of leaving this uncommitted.

Basically, I want to talk about how complex our theories are, how we got here, why it needs to change, and what can be done about it.

In the age of realtime theories, I think there's a lot more we can do.

This is a call-to-action that we need to be writing simpler theories if we want to make steno better, and more accessible.

## Ideas

Here are some things I might want to talk about, not really organized in any way

- What is steno
- (Somewhere) What translations are, and what steno is actually for (translations are effects?)
- A brief history of shorthand and steno
- What is a dictionary (and entries, and mathematical functions)
- (Somewhere) How steno works, what is a steno engine (stateful transducers)
- What is a layout
- What is a theory, and how do they relate to dictionaries
- What are theory rules, and how do they relate to entries
- Briefs, fake words, shape based outlines, etc.
  - Brief families, rule-based briefs vs. arbitrary briefs, shape-based
  - How briefs relate (families and beyond)
- Conflicts in realtime theories and the types of conflicts in realtime theories. Begin to talk about theory complexity in general
- Outline splitting, and how it relates to word boundary conflicts
- Stroke splitting, how it really works, what's wrong with it, and how it could work
- Orthography, and that whole spectrum

Some theory ideas near and dear to my heart:
- Regular outlines grammars
- Orthospelling
- Programmatic dictionaries

Theory development:
- The process of theory development
- Rules
- Specifications
- Understanding of your own theory
- Dictionary building
- Layout development!

Some other ideas:
- Alternative theories
- split "tall" keys
- Key positions


[[Home|I've]] designed a few theories over the past year or so, and I'd like to share what I've learned over all that time.

These are just some potentially organized ramblings.


For now, see:
- [[Generated Programmatic Dictionaries|Generated Programmatic Dictionaries]]
- [[Regular Outline Grammars|Regular Outline Grammars]]
- [[Pinchord|Pinchord]]
